let's take a look at the attacks carried
out by Israeli forces on schools just
this month on August the 1st the Dalal
al- mrai Public School in eastern Gaza
City was bombed killing at least 15
Palestinians 3 days later at least 17
Palestinians including children and
women were killed in attack on alamna
school and alhuda school both shelter
displaced people in the shik radwan
neighborhood west of Gaza City 30 people
were killed on August 4th after Israeli
war planes bombed Al Nasser and Hassan
salame schools in the al- Nasser
neighborhood and then on August the8th
Israeli planes bombed the Abdul fat
hamuda and Zahara schools in the east of
Gaza City which housed thousands of
displaced people 17 civilians there were
killed well the Qatari foreign Ministry
has released a statement saying that we
strongly condemn the Israeli
occupation's bombing of a school in the
Gaza Strip we demand an International
investigation that includes sending a un
team to investigate the occupations
targeting of schools we call on the
International Community to protect the
displaced and prevent the occupation
from implementing its plans to forcibly
displace them let's bring in Hassan
barari he's a professor of international
Affairs at katar University today he's
with us live from am man Mr barari good
to have you with us exasperated I think
is what most analysts are by this
ongoing targeting of either un
facilities or un schools or something
that is UN in Gaza where Palestinians
are Sheltering or looking for Safe Haven
that just isn't
anywhere yeah this is you know this is
part of the dominicide that Israel has
been committing against the Palestinians
they've been targeting hospitals and now
schools back to back targeting of
schools and this is a reflection of an
Israeli mindset that wants to make Gaza
really hard place to live in and this is
also part of the pressure to put in
Hamas in order to give in in any future
talks uh but at the same time you know
we if we put this in in a wider context
it reflects the that Israel has been
acting in bad faith when it comes to the
talks that would be held uh probably in
next Thursday uh and we have seen this
movie before so every time there was a
talk about peace talks and about truth
the Israelis would would do something to
undermine uh the the effort and I I
think this is clear this time that netan
is trying to uh um preempt the talks on
on next Thursday what do you make of the
the lack of international condemnation
when it comes to attacks like this we
it's not the first time that we're
seeing this in 10 months we've seen what
hundreds if not thousands of of attacks
like this but you know when you have one
that say largers up to 100 and maybe a
lot more because that death toll will
rise with those that have managed to
reach hospital but perhaps won't survive
it does make you wonder where the
leaders of the world are in trying to
reign in the attacks that civilians are
experiencing in the Gaza
Strip yeah so you're right the
indifference in the part of the
International Community and in action uh
these reflect one basic reality that
everybody else in the in the world is
looking at the United States to do
something to step in and make the
difference but we know that the United
States wouldn't do this for domastic
reason and for also their their alliance
with Israel so they don't see the
Palestinian as the humans uh they talk
about numbers of of people who were
killed and injured but at the same time
uh just if we just see things from
different perspective if this happened
in in Europe then the Americans would be
up in arms condemning and doing
something but when it comes to the
Palestinians I think they adopt the
Israeli narrative in terms of uh um the
way they paint the Palestinian as a
terrorist group and then should be uh
dismantled from Gaza so as long as the
American adop this position and this
perspective we can see the International
Community uh do anything independently
and that's why indifference with would
continue for time to come uh some might
observe these ongoing negotiations as a
bit of a political dance really time and
time again we keep hearing There's A
Renewed push for a ceasefire there are
new talks going on and yet just as we
also hear that the negotiating parties
and the stakeholders are just about to
sign on the dotted line Israel carries
out another devastating attack that
inevitably kills that conversation it's
a tactic isn't
it it is and every time we uh we argue
that we are closer than ever to reaching
a deal the Israel would come up with an
atrocity that makes things difficult H
and we know now for sure uh that
Netanyahu is is not really a genuine
partner to to any any truth or any peace
talks uh he's using this in order to
appease the opposition in internally
especially the families of the hostages
he wants to be seen as if he's doing
something or as the prisoner and
hostages are a priority for him when we
know they are not uh but at the same
time he plays into the hand of the ultra
National rightwing component of his
government and without them he can't
really hold into Power H and he listens
to them by perpetuating the conflict by
um committing atrocities in order to
make sure that any negotiations would
fail Hassan barari it's always good to
speak to you thanks so much for joining
us from Aman in georia